1. write a shell script program to display name, age, and family name. 
2. write a shell script program to add two numbers. 
3. Write a shell script to use the 8 special variables.
4. Write a shell script to Display the process id of your current shell. 
5. Write a shell script to display your name, current date, time, username and current directory. 
6. Write a shell script to store and display the names of your family members using array.
7. Write a shell script program to store 10 and 20 in variables a and b. Then apply 8 arithmetic operations and display the output. 
8. Write a shell script program to store 10 and 20 in variables a and b. Then apply 6 relational operations and display the output.
9. Write a shell script program to store abc and efg in variables a and b. Then apply string operations and display the output. 
10. Write a shell script to use File Test operators and show the output. 
11. Write a shell script to accept a password and check whether it is matching with the existing password. Display appropriate messages.
12. Write a shell script to accept two numbers a and b. Compare these numbers and Display appropriate messages. ( Equal,  greater than, less than) using if..elif 
13. Write a shell script to accept a fruit name and display colour of the fruit using case..esac. and display don't know if not matching any case. 
14. Write a shell script to display  odd numbers less than 10 using while loop.
15. Write a shell script to display  even numbers upto 10 using for loop. 
16. Write a shell script to display  your name 10 times using until loop. 
17. Write a shell script to display   a menu using select loop. Display appropriate messages using if..else or case..esac
18. Write a shell script program to show the use of break statement.
19. Write a shell script program to show the use of continue statement. 
20. Write a shell script program to read a number and print it in reverse order.  
21. Write a shell script program to print count of files and subdirectories in the specified directory. 
22. Write a shell script program to read a number and print odd or even using function. 
23. Write a shell script to calculate simple interest. 
24. Write a shell Script to determine largest among three integer number.
25. Write a shell script to determine a given year is leap year or not. 
26. Write a shell script to print multiplication table of given number using while statement. 
27. Write a shell script to compare two string.
28. Write a shell script to read and check the directory exists or not, if not make directory. 
29. Write a shell script to implement menu driven program to perform all arithmetic operation using case statement. 
30. Write a shell script to implement menu driven program to : (i). display list of directory contents (ii). Name of current directory (iii). Who is logged on 
31. Write a shell script to print following pattern. * * * * * * * * * * 
 
32. Write a shell script to accept USERNAME, PASSWORD, PHONE NUMBER, EMAIL ID, DATE OF BIRTH from the user and Display all the details only if the validation for each field is successful.
33. Create a data file ‘Sample.data’ containing 5 integer numbers, one on each line. Write a shell script to compute the average of these numbers by reading the file ‘Sample.data’. 
34.   Write a shell script to Display Disk usage, currently working processes, Month’s calendar, date and  time. 
35. Write a shell script to Copy the contents of file1 to file2 and and Search for a word in a file2. 
36. Write a Shell program to find the smallest and largest numbers from a set of numbers. 
37. Write a shell script to check whether a number is Prime or not.
38. Write a shell script to check whether a string is Palindrome or not.
39. Write a shell script to check whether the number is EVEN or ODD.
40. Write a shell script to count the number of vowels in a string. 
41. Write a shell script to find the Factorial of a number.
42. Write a shell script to display the Fibonacci series with given number of elements.
43. Write a shell script to find the area of a circle with the given radius.
44. Write a shell script that computes the gross salary of an employee according to the following rules: i)If basic salary is < 1500 then HRA =10% of the basic and DA =90% of the basic.ii)If basic salary is >=1500 then HRA =Rs500and DA=98% of the basic. The basic salary is entered interactively through the keyboard.
45. Write a Shell program to find the second highest number from a set of numbers. 
